Update to readme for workflow (#25)
ZOSOpenTools/metaport: README.md

Note that running `zopen build` against your development repo will NOT install the code into your
environment.

# Developer Notes

> ## workflow

Reviewer: Can you capitalize the first letter in the headers?

Author: Yes that would be wise

> Say you want to work on meta

Reviewer: I'd be more specific here and say: If you want to contribute to the meta repository, follow the steps below

Author: Yes, indeed. Thanks

### update existing meta

This will update the ~/zopen/usr/local/bin versions of the system binaries as part
of the meta package.

```
$ zopen upgrade meta -y
```

### Create the work dev repos for meta and metaport

This sets up the repos for work.  Note this workflow
requires meta and metaport dirs to be named meta
and metaport respectively.

```
$ cd ~/zopen/dev
$ git clone git@github.com:ZOSOpenTools/meta.git
$ git clone git@github.com:ZOSOpenTools/metaport.git
```

### Create a branch in the dev version of meta for work

```
$ cd ~/zopen/dev/meta

> $ git branch johndev

Reviewer: Are you able to use a different name for the branch? Something like mybranch or `devbranch`

Author: Yes.

$ git checkout johndev
```

### Create an environment script to setup for dev work

```
$ cd ~/zopen/dev
$ cat << EOF > setenv.sh
> export ZOPEN_META_DEV_ROOT=$HOME/zopen/dev/meta
> export ZOPEN_META_BRANCH=johndev
> EOF

$ cat setenv.sh

> export ZOPEN_META_DEV_ROOT=/z/jd895801/zopen/dev/meta.official

Reviewer 2: change to $HOME/zopen/dev/meta

Author: You are welcome.   Yes, indeed, I'll try to merge the changes into the original so it flow better.

export ZOPEN_META_BRANCH=johndev
$
```

Source the script to have environment variables set in current shell.

```
$ cd ~/zopen/dev
$ . ./setenv.sh
```

QUESTION

This would be if I wanted to work on zotsampleport?

> How does it map ZOT_SAMPLEPORT to zotsampleport as in git repo name?

Reviewer 2: If you wanted to enhance/improve zotsampleport - likely because you made changes to zopen-build or because you want to test zopen-build better, then you would:
```
cd $HOME/zopen/dev
git clone git@github.com:ZOSOpenTools/zotsampleport.git
cd zotsampleport
$ git branch mymod
$ git checkout mymod

<make your changes>
git add .
git commit -m 'comment'
git push --set-upstream origin mymod
```

You now need to be able to test zotsampleport before you merge your branch:
```
cd $HOME/zopen/dev/metaport
export ZOPEN_ZOT_SAMPLEPORT_BRANCH=mymod
zopen build
```
This will now use your branch `mymod` that you pushed to the server when running `zopen_check_build` testcase in the `tests` directory, by using your branch `mymod` instead of `main` when cloning `zotsampleport`

Reviewer 2: Since this is specific to enhancing the testing of zopen-build, it should perhaps go after the other more general description?

Author: Sounds good.  I'll revisit this patch tomorrow.  I'll use your suggestions.  Thanks for all the good info.  You make this fun.

Note that running `zopen build` against your development repo will NOT install the code into your
environment.

# Developer Notes

The detailed version of above.

## Workflow

The workflow for contributing to the meta repo.  This workflow assumes

> your installation of zopen is installed in `${HOME}`.

Reviewer: Should this be $HOME/zopen?

to perform a pull request.

Its a common practice to work in the `$HOME/zopen/dev/` directory.

```
$ cd $HOME/zopen/dev
$ git clone git@github.com:ZOSOpenTools/meta.git
$ git clone git@github.com:ZOSOpenTools/metaport.git
```

### Step 3 - Create a branch in the dev version of meta for work

For ease of use replace the text `YOURID` with your
github userid.  This will create a branch which looks
like: `xyzdev`.

```
$ cd $HOME/zopen/dev/meta
$ git branch YOURUSERIDdev
$ git checkout YOURUSERIDdev
```

Alternatively, you can create the branch and checkout with one command.

```
$ cd $HOME/zopen/dev/meta
$ git checkout -b YOURUSERIDdev
```

### Step 4 - Create an environment script to setup for dev work

This will allow you to enable and disable your work
on meta.

```
$ cd $HOME/zopen/dev
$ cat << EOF > setenv.sh
> export ZOPEN_META_DEV_ROOT=$HOME/zopen/dev/meta
> export ZOPEN_META_BRANCH=YOURUSERIDdev
> EOF

$ cat setenv.sh
export ZOPEN_META_DEV_ROOT=${HOME}/zopen/dev/meta
export ZOPEN_META_BRANCH=YOURUSERIDdev
$
```

Source the script to have environment variables set in your current shell.

```
$ cd $HOME/zopen/dev
$ . ./setenv.sh
```

> Create the unset script to disalble using your sandbox.

Reviewer: type on disable

```
$ cat << EOF > disable.sh
> unset ZOPEN_META_DEV_ROOT
> unset ZOPEN_META_BRANCH
> EOF
```

It is used in similar fashion.

### Step 5 - Build meta using branch YOURUSERIDdev

```
$ cd $HOME/zopen/dev/metaport

> $ zopen build

Reviewer: I would add a little blurb here saying that zopen build builds your meta branch and also validates it via its test cases

```

Afterwards, in the metaport directory, there will be a link
to the meta directory specified by the environment variable

> where we created the branchin the metaport directory.

Reviewer: branchin -> branch in

Note that running `zopen build` against your development repo will NOT install the code into your
environment.

# Developer Notes

The detailed version of above.

## Workflow

The workflow for contributing to the meta repo.  This workflow assumes
your installation of zopen is installed in `${HOME}`.

### Step 1 - Update existing meta

> This will update the ~/zopen/usr/local/bin versions of the system binaries as part

Reviewer: `~/zopen/usr/local/bin` is a configurable location. Perhaps you can update it as such:

Step 1:
Update your z/OS Open Tools meta package before proceeding

of the meta package.

```
$ zopen upgrade meta -y
```

### Step 2 - Create the work dev repos for meta and metaport

> This sets up the repos for work.  Note this workflow

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This clones the repos for development work.  Note this workflow
```

> requires meta and metaport dirs to be named meta

Reviewer: This should not be a requirement

and metaport respectively.  

Since merging to the main branch requires a pull request, this workflow shows
how to contribute using a personal dev branch and then the use of github
to perform a pull request.

> Its a common practive to work in the `~/zopen/dev/` directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is common practice to work in the `$HOME/zopen/dev/` directory.
```

```

> $ cd ~/zopen/dev

Reviewer: To make it more clear that ~ represents HOME
```suggestion
$ cd $HOME/zopen/dev
```

$ git clone git@github.com:ZOSOpenTools/meta.git
$ git clone git@github.com:ZOSOpenTools/metaport.git
```

### Step 3 - Create a branch in the dev version of meta for work

For ease of use replace the text `YOURID` with your
github userid.  This will create a branch which looks
like: `xyzdev`.

```

> $ cd ~/zopen/dev/meta

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ cd $HOME/zopen/dev/meta
```

$ git branch YOURUSERIDdev
$ git checkout YOURUSERIDdev
```

Alternatively, you can creat the branch and checkout with one command.

```

> $ cd ~/zopen/dev/meta

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ cd $HOME/zopen/dev/meta
```

$ git checkout -b YOURUSERIDdev
```

### Step 4 - Create an environment script to setup for dev work

This will allow you to enable and disable your work
on meta.

```
$ cd ~/zopen/dev
$ cat << EOF > setenv.sh
> export ZOPEN_META_DEV_ROOT=$HOME/zopen/dev/meta
> export ZOPEN_META_BRANCH=YOURUSERIDdev
> EOF

$ cat setenv.sh

> export ZOPEN_META_DEV_ROOT=${HOME}/zopen/dev/meta.official

Reviewer: ```suggestion
export ZOPEN_META_DEV_ROOT=${HOME}/zopen/dev/meta
```

export ZOPEN_META_BRANCH=YOURUSERIDdev
$
```

> Source the script to have environment variables set in current shell.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Source the script to have environment variables set in your current shell.
```

```

> $ cd ~/zopen/dev

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ cd $HOME/zopen/dev
```

$ . ./setenv.sh
```

Create the unset script to disalble using your sandbox.

```
$ cat << EOF > disable.sh
> unset ZOPEN_META_DEV_ROOT
> unset ZOPEN_META_BRANCH
> EOF
```

It is used in similar fashion.

### Step 5 - Build meta using branch YOURUSERIDdev

```
$ cd ~/zopen/dev/metaport
$ zopen build
```

Afterwards, in the metaport directory, there will be a link
to the meta directory specified by the environment variable
where we created the branch

> branch in the metaport directory.

Reviewer: Join with previous sentence

```
$ cd ~/zopen/dev/metaport
$ ls -ld meta

> $ ls -ld meta

Reviewer: dupe command?

lrwxrwxrwx   1 JXXXXXXX XXXXXXXX      26 Nov  9 16:16 meta -> /z/jXXXXXXX/zopen/dev/meta
$ cd ~/zopen/dev/metaport/meta
$ git branch
* johndev
  main
$
```

At this point the repo can be used.

> ### STEP 6 - Use the developer version of meta

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Step 6 - Use the developer version of meta
```

Note that running `zopen build` against your development repo will NOT install the code into your
environment.

# Developer Notes

The detailed version of above.

## Workflow

The workflow for contributing to the meta repo.  This workflow assumes

> your installation of zopen is installed in `$HOME\home`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
your installation of zopen is installed in `$HOME/zopen`.
```
